Good morning.
I'd like to welcome you to session 803,
the Mac OS X Networking Overview session.
I have the privilege of
introducing this session.
I'm pretty satisfied that the room
is filled pretty well out here.
This session is one of the more
famous sessions during WWDC,
at least over the past several years.
We've had some great questions
come up in the session,
and I'm sure today will
be no exception to that.
So let me introduce Vincent Lubet,
who is the manager for CoreOS Networking.
Thank you.
So here's what we're going to go through.
So the overall architecture
of the networking in Mac OS X.
There's been quite a lot of new
things in the years since we
introduced Mac OS X last March.
And also we go through a good deal of
the session will be about the APIs.
There's a large set of APIs you can use,
and some hints and tips.
So here is the overall architecture.
So the basis in the core ways of
the networking stack is in Darwin,
and all of that can be
taken advantage by that.
So the application environment
where they have higher level APIs.
So it's the same.
I mean, those are our ongoing goals.
It hasn't changed since last year
when we did the presentation.
So ease of use is very important.
We'd like to have the networking
as transparent as possible.
Performance is very important for us.
Both in terms for end user experience,
but also because that's the same
stack that is used by Mac OS X server.
Extensibility, we'd like to extend the,
I mean, to allow to extend the
function of the stacks,
and compliance with standards,
going through new,
embracing new standards as they come up.
So that's kind of summarized
what the features we have.
So we have both TCP/IP and
Apple Protocol stack.
For the link layers,
we support Ethernet and PPP,
and also PPPoE.
Mac OS X also comes up with
built-in firewall and NAT daemon.
Also,
it allows for dynamic configuration,
so it ties into the ease of use.
You don't need to restart,
or we try to reconfigure the
system as dynamically as possible.
And also, we have new, this year in fact,
is the full set of zero-conf protocol
that are supporting the support,
the basis for Rendezvous.
So, the core networking,
which is mostly in the kernel,
and also some BSD layers
at the library level.
So it's based on FreeBSD.
The API at this level that can be used
by applications is the Socket Level API,
which
is more or less equivalent to the
Open Transport APIs for Mac OS X.
So the benefit of that is that it's
easy to port Unix applications.
So it's not necessary that we encourage
new development of new applications
to be based on the Socket API,
but it allows for easy
port of applications.
What's new in Jaguar?
So we, since last year,
the networking stack was
based on the FreeBSD 3.1.
It was starting to show its edge,
and so we did a complete
overhaul of the stack.
brought in a number of bug fixes,
which are always welcome.
We also updated the
firewall and NAT daemon.
But the big pieces were the
inclusion of IPv6 and IPSec.
They are based on the implementation
from the Kamei Consortium in Japan,
where IPv6 is very important.
And also something new in
Jaguar is the support for
PPTP as a basis of a VPN client.
So in addition to
The networking stack in
Mac OS X is not exactly the
same implementation as FreeBSD.
We did some, I mean, the Darwin kernel is
multi-threaded and preemptive,
which is so we have some
different ways of protecting,
for example,
the critical section in the kernel.
Also, the mBuff network buffers
are implementation.
I mean, it's different from
FreeBSD and allows for...
[Transcript missing]
If some of you came to the
Darwin presentation yesterday,
you have heard that we, I mean,
developing in a kernel comes
with a lot of responsibility,
so we'll talk a little
bit in this session,
in the session 8 or 9,
about what are the constraints.
But, I mean,
if you really need to write an NKE,
we encourage you to work with us
because the current solution is,
you know,
I mean, the implementation certainly
will change of the kernel,
and so we need to work with you
if you develop an NKE so that
you can be ready for change.
[Transcript missing]
PPP also.
So PPP is built in in Mac OS X.
It's based on the PPPd,
which is the open source.
I mean, one of the most popular open
source implementation of PPP.
It's based on PPP, but again,
we've added a number of enhancements so
that it's not the same implementation.
You cannot just build your
own PPPd and just replace it.
So, Apple Enhancement is our
implementation of PPPoE for DSL.
It supports CCL script,
the same modem script that you used
on Mac OS 9 are supported in Mac OS X.
For an API,
currently the only public API to
control PPP is in Open Transport.
So, we support the OTPPP API set,
and in Jaguar we fixed
a number of bugs too,
so that it's more useful.
And the most important difference
between the standard PPPd is that it's
integrated with the system configuration
that provides dynamic configuration.
And so, a new injection... In Jaguar,
also the important new feature
in Jaguar is the PPPd client that
provides VPN connectivity with Windows.
So, those were the, I mean,
we did also a lot,
we fixed a great number of bugs.
The other day I looked at it,
I think it's in the order
of 300 bugs were fixed.
So, we improved performance.
I think that now we can easily saturate
gigabit links with TCP traffic.
We also provide for, in Jaguar,
we allow for detaching
of network interfaces.
That means that if you have, for example,
an Ethernet device in a USB port,
I mean, an Ethernet USB device.
Now you can, when you unplug it,
the stack will clean up all the
reference to this device so that you
can effectively attach and detach it.
And it was not possible up to Jaguar.
Also, we've updated many,
many main pages,
which is one of the primary source
of documentation for a lot of the
APIs we have at the socket level.
We also fixed the implementation
of the NDRV protocol family.
NDRV is Network Driver.
It's not the same as the...
The NDRV graphics drivers.
So it allows for to develop
a user and protocol stack.
So for example, it's a way to, I mean,
you can take advantage of that instead
of implementing a protocol as an NKE.
If it's just for specific and
protocol specific for an application,
you can use those socket types.
And also new in Jaguar,
and it was also something that a lot
of people asked Apple to provide,
is SNMP.
So it's based on the NetSNMP open
source implementation.
And it has both console and
agents implementation and
supports the basic MIBs,
MIB2, and things like that.
So network configuration,
so it's a cornerstone of the ease of
use of the networking in Mac OS X.
So certainly you know about the
network preference panel and
where you can see a set of-- Oops.
The Mac OS X is a set of services.
Services provide the configuration
for a network interface,
if you wish.
So, for example, for Ethernet, PPP,
and others.
So, more than one service
can be active at a time.
So, that's why we support Mac OS X,
support multi-homing, and also new,
I think in Jaguar, we support also the
configuration of one service.
I mean, at least one network interface
can be configured to have
more than one IP address.
So, it's multi-link,
multi-homing that we support in Jaguar,
right at the user interface level.
So,
the configuration is dynamically updated.
That means that there's a daemon that
watches for the status of the link.
So, that's where that supports
the plugging and plugging,
joining airport networks,
and things like that.
And all this is managed by the
system configuration framework.
So,
that has implementation of the mechanism,
but also APIs that you can use.
So, different set of APIs.
So, one, so access to the configuration,
that means the stored information.
So, something you can read and write.
Which is, so the current state of the
configuration depends on the,
for example, the status of the link,
and also if you have, for example,
the IP address can be acquired
dynamically with DHCP.
So, it's the second line,
the state of the network,
you can have dynamic information.
So also, something that has been, I mean,
also that a lot of application who wants
to behave correctly before issuing,
opening a socket or
network endpoint will,
to prevent automatic dialing of PPP,
we recommend that those applications
first check for accessibility so
that they prevent unwanted dialing.
And there's a replacement
for the Open Transport,
the Mac OS 9 TCP will dial,
and that's also part of the
system configuration framework.
We have also a notification mechanism
in system configuration so that you
can be notified when something changes.
And that's the basis also of the dynamic.
The dynamicism of Mac OS X networking.
So, all those APIs are available in,
have been available since Mac OS X 10.1.
And DTS came up with a very good sample
code called MoreSCF that allows you
to understand how to use those APIs.
It's a rich set of API,
and that's a very good guide to them.
Rendezvous is new in Jaguar.
It's based on the ZeroConf IETF
and the NRC, so it provides for, I mean,
it allows for networking,
local networking that
always works a little bit,
just like Apple Talk, in fact.
So, but it's based on TCP IP standard.
Most, I mean, it's as much as possible
rendezvous and zero-conf re-users,
already established
standard like DNS and DHCP,
with very small tweaks.
So--
So it makes really, that's the,
I lost for,
Just plug and play networking.
And there are certainly ways you
can maybe take advantage in your
application if you provide the service.
It's very easy to just register
your service and make it
available on the network.
And to know more about Rendezvous
and Zero Configuration networking,
you should check session 811
where they go in deeper details.
Okay, now in a year we've learned,
I mean in many years,
we've learned a great deal about what
are the best practices and how to
write for networking and also Mac OS X.
So solutions that used to work well,
for example,
with Open Transport on Mac OS X,
don't necessarily work well in Mac OS X.
So for example, one of the big,
I mean the biggest problem and the thing
that can affect the most performance
and also the user experience is polling.
Polling uses,
so all the CPU and Mac OS X,
which is a multitasking system, it hurts,
you know, other processes.
So there are many system services that
are just... implemented in user land,
not in the kernel.
So they run barely at...
Just the priorities of those
processes is not very much
higher than a normal application.
So, and there are many ways to,
many solutions.
I mean, we have all the APIs out there
that allows you to either to block.
I mean, that's the typical problem.
A lot of Unix tools, that's what they do.
They block or you be event-driven.
And certainly what you can use is to use,
for example, at the socket layer,
you can use the select system
code to wait in a thread,
for example, and block for network,
wait for network activity.
And it's not,
[Transcript missing]
The Open Transport stack
was more tolerant about what
size of buffer you're using.
So you have to find a good compromise
between two large and two small buffers.
Because if it's too small,
you have a lot of context switches.
So the pathological case is reading
or writing one byte at a time,
for example.
And if you also use two large buffers,
I mean, I've seen applications trying
to use megabytes of buffers to
pass through the socket layer,
read or write.
That's not, I mean, it doesn't,
it just puts more overhead
on the overall system,
but doesn't get any better
throughput if you want.
So you have to find, you know, I mean,
a good... So the question is,
what is a good value, and that depends.
But certainly something in the order of,
you know, a few, I don't know,
something like 1010 to 40k, 60k,
is something that is good for TCP,
for example.
What you want to try to
achieve is streaming.
And so something you have to watch for,
so two things you have to watch for
is the size of your socket buffer.
So by default,
I think they are in the range of 32k.
And...
And also the other parameter
is the size of the buffer you
read in and out of the kernel.
There is something also we've
seen some pathological case where
In the BSD implementation of TCP/IP,
the socket buffer really corresponds
to your received window size.
So if your application
is not fast enough,
for example,
and doesn't empty the socket buffer size,
the advertised window will shrink.
And that means that you will see
the hiccups in the stream of data.
So that means that your
process should be responsive.
And use, I mean, when it receives data,
doesn't try to receive data.
For example, there's one flag you
can use in the socket,
which is the message,
"Wait all." You shouldn't wait
for all the data necessarily.
You should,
as soon as you can read a few K,
you should try to empty
the socket buffer.
And we'll go into a little bit
more detail in session 809,
which is Advanced Networking.
Also, something that is very important
for applications is that,
and let's say some of the Unix-like,
now it's more the Unix side
of the network applications,
is that Mac OS X is a
very dynamic system.
We have portables, we have airport,
everything you can plug and unplug.
So, applications should be aware that
there's not a single IP address,
that the IP address changes over time.
And for example, servers should, I mean,
there are very few cases where
servers should know about
which IP address it binds to.
So they should just use any IP address.
And the same for clients.
There's no real good reason to bind
to a specific address or port number.
If you don't specify one,
the TCP stack will choose one for you,
an ephemeral one.
And also, you have
[Transcript missing]
Finally,
just a word about the Socket API.
So that's the native API,
that's the lowest level API we have
in the system for applications to use.
There's a lot of open source code
available that you can learn about it.
There's a very good book,
Unix Network Programming
by Richard Stevens,
which is kind of the bible for us.
Because we have the Socket APIs, I mean,
we really, really encourage all
Carbon applications that still,
a lot of Carbon applications have,
in fact, were ported maybe from
Unix or maybe Windows,
and they have a layer,
an emulation layer of Socket,
so that calls Open Transport,
and that was fine on Mac OS X,
but if you run this
Carbon application on X,
you have, so you have the pseudo-Socket
layer that calls Open Transport,
which is itself called the Socket layer,
so you have two layers of
emulations where you lose
performance and also correctness.
And,
but the Socket-level APIs can be complex,
and Mac OS X has a rich
set of higher-level APIs,
a little bit provided
with more abstractions,
and allows for...
[Transcript missing]
So Vincent asked me here today to talk
some about the APIs that are available
to you above the operating system level.
Hmm, I think I'm holding this wrong.
So what I'm going to talk about
is what APIs are available to you,
and then we're going to look at each API,
or at least the largest APIs in depth.
And for each one, we're going to talk
about what that API does,
what strengths it has as an API,
what its limitations are,
when you should use it,
and what's new with them since 10.1.
There they are.
Nice long list.
In Carbon,
we have URL access and Internet config.
In Cocoa, NSURL and NSURL handle,
as well as the new NSNetService
and NSNetService browser.
At the core services level,
we have CF Network, Web Services Core,
a number of pieces from Core Foundation,
that's CFURL, CF Socket, and CF Stream,
and then finally Open Transport.
So how does that all lay out?
Looks more or less like that.
You can see where each of the pieces are.
The important thing to notice here is
that everything is built on the solid
foundation provided by BSD Sockets.
Everything I'm talking
about works through Sockets,
works through TCP/IP by and large.
The other important thing to notice
is that anything in the core services
layer is available to any application.
It's also available to most any daemon.
So with that,
let's just start with the APIs.
I'm going to go pretty much from the
top of the stack down to the bottom.
So I'm starting the furthest
away from Sockets and moving
down into the basement.
So at the very top we have URL access.
URL access provides basic
APIs for up and downloading URLs.
It's basically intended as a
convenience API that's totally
focused on just fetching the URL.
You don't want to look at the URL,
you don't care about the
network configuration,
just get me the data.
As such,
it's going to automatically pick up any
system settings that are on the computer.
But it also provides relatively
few options based on the scheme.
So if you need to do some
tricky piece of HTTP,
this is probably too high level for you.
Out of the box, it supports HTTP, HTTPS,
FTP, and file schemes.
And it is part of the
Carbon APIs providing source level
compatibility back to Mac OS 8.6.
So its strengths are its simplicity,
really.
You don't have to know much about
what's going on with the URL.
Just go get it for me.
It provides a number of
options for extra processing,
including, for instance,
populating a file or directory.
There are also flags for
things like UI display and
for automatic decompression.
And of course,
one of its big strengths is it provides
source compatibility to Mac OS 9.
Okay, so what are its limitations?
First one is there's no way to
add any support for new schemes.
If we don't provide it,
there's no plug-in model,
there's no way you can supply it.
Also, the API is beginning to age.
It did start in the OS 9 days.
As such, you will see some ties
that hook in directly to,
for instance, the Thread Manager.
Those are no longer really
meaningful in the Mac OS X world.
In Jaguar and on Mac OS X,
there are some unimplemented features.
The most notable I've called out here
so that you can know to avoid them.
Progress Bar Display via
either URL upload or
download is not implemented.
Automatic Decompression,
also not implemented.
Also, as one of the older APIs,
there are some issues around Pthreads
and cooperative threads coexisting.
It did start as a
cooperative-threaded API,
so it still carries some of that legacy.
So when should you use it?
Well,
you should use it if you need a strategy
that has to work on both OS 9 and OS X.
You should use it if you need a scheme
agnostic strategy that's based in Carbon.
And you should use it when
you want that simplicity,
when you don't want to know
anything about the details.
We have done a fair bit of work
with URL access since 10.1.
There have been a lot of bug fixes.
We've got progress display
working now from inside URL open.
We do a better job of scrubbing
failed transfers off the disk.
Redirection is working.
There's better event handling
and notification throughout.
In particular,
system events are coming through
cleanly now to your callbacks.
And there's better error
handling throughout.
The other Carbon API I'm going to
talk about some is Internet Config.
You probably all know
what Internet Config is.
You've probably all used it.
It holds basic networking
settings of a variety of kinds.
So included in that are web proxies,
instructions on which helper
apps should be used for
downloading which kinds of URLs.
There's an elaborate type
database that maps MIME type
to type creator into extension.
Some people have used Internet Config to
store app specific preferences as well.
And you will see a handful
of user preferences in the
Internet Config database as well.
It is primarily a legacy Carbon API that
was created on Mac OS 8 and 9,
and that we have carried
forward as part of Carbon.
Its strengths are precisely that
it is of such long standing,
it's well known and well understood,
it's your only option on Mac OS 9,
and it provides
compatibility with Mac OS 9.
On the other hand,
on X it has a number of limitations.
The implementation on Mac OS X is
not as efficient as it was on IX.
You can mitigate this somewhat
by using ICBGN and ICN.
There's an excellent tech note on
this if you want to look that up.
If you just bracket your calls-- bracket
subsequent calls with ICBGN and ICN,
you'll see a noticeable
performance increase.
Some of the settings
inside Internet Config are
dated and insufficient.
There are, in many cases,
there's only a single setting provided,
where in the modern world
you might expect several.
Some settings are completely obsolete
and no longer meaningful at all.
GetConfigFile and all of its
friends are a good example of that.
And it's no longer the final authority.
It's no longer the
repository for many settings.
So when Internet Config fetches
some of those,
it's going to have to go
through a translation layer,
and there's a performance
hit with that translation.
Also, for what it does,
it's going to force a higher level
linkage that's really warranted.
You're going to be linking at
the application services level,
where all you're really doing
is fetching a bunch of data,
and you might want that at a lower level,
like core services or
possibly even the OS.
So at this point,
we're recommending that you
only use Internet Config if
there's truly no other choice.
Look instead for other
frameworks to provide your needs.
The two big ones to be aware
of are System Configuration,
which provides all the information
about your proxies and about
the current network setting.
Or Launch Services,
which knows how to open files
and URLs and is maintaining that
database for you of mapping types
to type creator to application.
If you have used Internet Config to
store your app-specific preferences,
stop it.
Internet Config is a shared
resource on the system.
Every preference you put there is a
burden to every other Carbon application.
Instead, use CFPreferences.
Keep your preferences in their own space.
So, nothing new here.
We haven't done a thing with
Internet config since 10.1.
With that,
I'm going to move on to the Cocoa APIs.
I'm going to start with
NSURL and NSURL Handle.
These are sort of the
Cocoa equivalents of URL access.
This is the convenience API.
Here's a URL.
I don't know nothing about it.
Just get me the data.
Unlike URL access, NSURL and NSURL Handle
exist below the UI layer,
so they do not have integration
with some of the higher UI elements.
But that also means they don't
force you to link against a full
application framework to get it.
Two classes, NSURL and NSURL Handle.
NSURL just represents the URL.
It's bridged to CFURL,
which you've probably used.
NSURL Handle, on the other hand,
is the piece that actually
performs the download.
It's the piece with
the state engine in it.
It's the piece that actually knows
how to build the network connection.
These two classes together
were designed primarily as an
infrastructure for handling URLs,
much of the same as Java Net URL is
and its associated classes.
However, out of the box,
we do provide support for HTTP, HTTPS,
FTP, and file.
So NSURL handles strengths are
really its integration with
the surrounding frameworks.
In particular,
it's well integrated with the run loop,
which means you're going to have an
asynchronous API which nonetheless is
not spawning any additional threads.
It's easily extensible via subclassing.
It's designed to be
extended via subclassing.
And it's well integrated
into all the Cocoa APIs.
So, for instance, the NSImage class,
as I'm showing here,
can be initialized from
the contents of a URL.
Well, NSURL handle is what's
actually doing the work.
So if you extend NSURL handle,
NSImage is automatically going to
know how to initialize itself from the
new kind of URL you've implemented.
We're also seeing extremely
good performance under
load using NSURL handle.
And as just one example,
the mail application on Jaguar
downloads all of the HTML mail,
all of the HTML images
using NSURL handle,
all on the main thread.
And we're not seeing any kind of
a delay in processing user events.
So what are its limitations?
Many of the extras that you get
with URL access are missing.
In particular, there's no UI integration.
We live below the UI level.
And there's no way to do things
like automatic decompression,
content handling,
automatic population of files,
all of that kind of thing.
The documentation for NSURL and
NSURL Handle is not complete.
There is some there and
it will get you started.
There's also some good
examples on the CD.
And many of the Cocoa APIs,
which all started as file-based APIs,
have not made the full transition
to accept arbitrary URLs.
So when should you use it?
Use it when you want a simple download
abstraction and for whatever reason
you don't want to use URL access.
Keep in mind that although
this is a Cocoa technology,
we've reached the point now where
it is not a large burden for a
Carbon application to link in foundation.
So as a Carbon application,
an NSURL handle is available to you.
It's also the only API on the system
that will allow you to automatically
extend and add your own handling
for particular kinds of URLs.
You can add your own scheme handler,
it will automatically be
picked up by the Cocoa APIs.
We've made a lot of changes and
additions to NSURL handle since 10.1.
We've added support for FTP.
A lot of the bugs have been shaken out.
We've moved to an asynchronous
domain name lookup,
so you'll no longer block waiting
for us to get the answer to what
the IP address is for a given host.
And we have integration with system
configuration planned for Jaguar.
That's not on your CD, though.
Okay, I'm going to touch
briefly on NSNet Services.
NSNet Services is brand new in Jaguar.
This is Rendezvous, or ZeroConf.
This is the Cocoa API that makes it
possible for you to register and discover
other services out there on the net.
Two classes,
NSNet Service and NSNet Service Browser.
They're implemented on top of
CFNet Services inside CFNetwork,
which I'm going to talk
about in a little bit.
But I just did want to highlight that
this is a Cocoa API available to you.
So that's it for Cocoa,
and now I'm going to descend into that
green bar in the architecture diagram,
the core services bar.
And I'm going to start with CF Network.
CF Network was first introduced in 10.1,
and it provides a number of
low-level abstractions for
some basic networking concepts.
Now, CF Network is often confused for
being a library like URL Access or
NSURL that's focused on URL download.
That's not true.
That's not the intention
behind CF Network.
The CF network provides APIs to
allow you to directly access and
manipulate SSL or TLS socket streams.
You don't have to get involved
in the details of managing that.
It also provides a full HTTP 1.1 engine,
and it provides the new
Net Services APIs that provide
access to Zero Conf Rendezvous.
The primary focus of CF Network as a
piece in that core services layer is on
high performance but small footprint.
And we use it throughout
the stack ourselves.
It's used by NSURL Handle, Sherlock,
Software Update, iPhoto,
Web Services Core.
It's also used by iChat,
which you saw demoed in the keynote.
We use it pretty heavily in-house.
So what are CF Network's strengths?
It provides complete exacting
control of the HTTP transaction.
You can manipulate the request
directly in terms native to HTTP.
If you understand the spec,
you can use CF Network very easily.
It has full support for HTTP 1.1
that includes pipelined persistent
connections and digest authentication.
There's full integration
with the run loop,
so you can use the HTTP engine
and the socket streams in
an asynchronous fashion,
again, without having to fork threads.
And it gives you the best
performance you can get from a
networking API in the Mac OS X stack
without dropping into BSD sockets.
And in fact, our measurements show
that as far as throughput,
CF Network will give
you the same bandwidth,
the same performance as raw sockets,
if you do so much as
hit the network card.
The only time we could see a
performance difference between
CF Network and raw sockets was
in hitting the loopback address.
Limitations.
Well, the limitations are sort of
the flip side of the strengths.
This is not a convenience API.
It's not simple the way
URL access and NSURL are simple.
No FTP support in CF Network,
and it's brand new,
so the documentation is pretty scarce.
So when should you use
CF Network in preference to some
of these higher level frameworks?
Use it if you know your transport
is HTTP and you want control.
Use it if you want a simple SSL encrypted
socket and you don't want to get
involved in the details of SSL,
don't want to figure out an SSL library.
Use it any time you want more control
than the higher level APIs provide.
As just one example,
the higher level APIs are going to
dictate the threading model to you.
NSURL requires run-loop integration.
URL access requires spawning threads.
If that doesn't fit with your model,
drop to CF Network.
It will accommodate the
threading model you want to use.
Use it anytime you want to avoid
linking with higher level frameworks.
Maybe you have a piece of code that
needs to work with both Carbon and Cocoa.
Maybe you have a piece of code
that is going to run in a high
performance daemon and you don't
want the hit of linking high.
and use it anytime you need features
that are only available in CF Network.
The big example of this is Rendezvous.
If you don't want to link in Objective-C,
CF Network is your option
for accessing Rendezvous.
So what's new since 10.1?
Well, we've moved up to full persistent
connections in the HTTP engine.
We've added the Net Services and
Service Discovery APIs.
We've added support for SOCKS proxies,
that's v4 and v5.
We've added digest authentication
to the HTTP engine,
and we also have added an
asynchronous hostname lookup.
Now I'm going to briefly
touch on Web Services Core.
This is also a new API,
brand new with Jaguar.
Web Services Core is a client
framework for accessing web
services like SOAP or XMLRPC.
Brand new in Jaguar, based on CF Network,
and as such, it exports new CF types,
and it's friendly to run loops
and run loop integration.
It does have support for
authentication options,
but in Jaguar it's for HTTP,
HTTPS posts only.
All right.
I'm going to move on down even lower.
Now we're going to look
at Core Foundation,
which provides what the basis
that CF Network builds on itself.
There are four interesting CF types
when you talk about networking
support in Core Foundation.
CFURL, you've probably used,
simply represents the URL string.
Allows you to parse out
the different pieces,
examine the URL,
but has no knowledge of how to
actually fetch the URL built in.
CF Socket allows you to take
a Berkeley socket and manage
it directly on the run loop.
That's where NSURL, CF Network,
NSURL Handle are all getting
their basic support for receiving
socket data on the run loop.
and CF Readstream and
WriteStream represent one-way
byte streams to and from any of
a number of different sources.
Files, sockets,
or memory are the three I list here.
There are also some dirt
simple functions inside
Core Foundation for fetching a URL,
but they are dirt simple.
If you're doing anything
at all complicated,
they're probably not what you want
and you need to link a little higher.
So the strengths of what's
in Core Foundation are here.
CFStream provides a simple single
abstraction that hides away the
details of what the source is.
When you work with a CFStream,
you do not need to know whether
you're talking to a file,
talking out over the network,
talking into memory.
Provides very good,
strong run-loop integration.
This is where all the frameworks above
it inherit the run-loop integration from.
and it supports a variety
of threading models.
CFSocket provides support for
arbitrary socket configurations.
You can do a bunch of things
with CFSocket that you
cannot do with CFStream.
In particular, you can work with
UDP sockets as well as TCP,
and you can set up server LISN sockets
as well as client sockets.
On the other hand,
you are so close to the OS that at this
point the API is very thin to guarantee
that there's no performance hit.
You're going to be,
if you're working with CFSocket,
you're going to be configuring
your socket using the BSD APIs.
And you're going to need to go
to higher level APIs or descend
to sockets to do any of the more
complex configuration you need to do.
It's not extensible,
streams are not extensible,
there's no way currently to
create new kinds of streams.
And again,
because much of this is so very new,
there's little documentation available.
So when are you going
to use Core Foundation?
Use it when you're perfectly
comfortable with BSD sockets and all
you want is run-loop integration.
You're perfectly content to
manage the socket yourself,
you just want to know when
the bytes are arriving.
Use it if you need some type that's
going to abstract away the source
or the destination of the data.
So you have some piece of parsing
code that really shouldn't care
where the bytes are coming from.
Or you have some code that's writing
out data that really shouldn't
care where the bytes are going to.
You can use a CFReader write
stream to represent that.
and use it anytime you need to use
another API that's going to consume
or produce a read or write stream.
So what's new since X.1?
We've added CF read and
write stream set property.
This is the way you configure the
stream and change the way it behaves.
CFSocket has callbacks for write now.
It used to be that you would get your
callback only when data had arrived.
Now you can also receive a
callback telling you that there's
room to write in the buffer.
There are some more options
controlling exactly when your
CF socket callback is going to fire.
Better event dispatching from CF Stream.
The event model's been
cleaned up considerably.
Asynchronous host name,
domain name lookup.
This is where everybody
else is inheriting from
to get this functionality.
Socket streams are now
errored out properly as the
network changes underneath it.
And we suppress SIG pipe
on socket streams.
So last in the core services
bucket is Open Transport.
Vincent talked some about
Open Transport already.
You know that it's a compatibility API,
back to Mac OS 8 and 9,
and that it exists on X primarily
for easy migration up from code
bases that were designed for 8 and 9.
However, on Mac OS X it's going
through an emulation layer.
And as such, there's a hit in a lot of
threads and context switches.
There's no access in OT to
the IPv6 or the IPSec APIs.
And at this point,
we're recommending that
no new Mac OS X networking
code be written to OT.
Use BSD sockets instead,
or use the higher level
APIs when possible.
All right, so that's it for the APIs.
I want to just take a moment
to go over where we stand with
IPv6 in these different APIs.
At the bottom, CF Socket is IP agnostic.
You're going to provide
CF Socket with a SOC adder.
That can be an IPv6 adder,
it can be an IPv4 adder,
but it's still up to you to
choose what flavor you want.
On the other hand, all the upper pieces,
CF Stream, CF Network, NSURL Handle,
URL Access, they're all working with
domain names or with URLs.
So we will end up doing the IPv6 work
for you when you write to those APIs.
I'm not going to tell you
all the work is done there,
but a lot of it is.
And on the CD you have,
you'll see a lot of the IPv6
connectivity in place already.
And then I just want
to highlight one thing.
Some of you have noticed that
CFURL and NSURL have not yet
adopted the IPv6 addressing string,
the one that looks like this.
That's not in the CD you got,
but it is planned for Jaguar.
And that's it,
and I'm going to ask Vincent to come
back up to close out the session.
Okay, so I'm just going to wrap up here.
So what's next?
Certainly it's for you to take
advantage of all those APIs,
certainly move away from
Open Transport and learn
the new APIs in Mac OS X.
As always, we cannot make any product
announcements or tell what
we are going to deliver when,
and we don't know,
but that's kind of the list of
things we're going to work on.
So, a lot more integration of IPv6.
For example, IPv6 in Jaguar,
that's the first foundation we have,
is just the layout of the protocols.
We're going to bring up
more IPv6 features up to the
stacks and many applications,
but a lot more things that
we may end up working on.
And also, provide a brief roadmap.
So, yesterday there was already
the Darwin roadmap that shows,
for example, what's the core networking,
where it fits in the story.
So, 803 is this session.
At the same time, there was,
in another room, 6th and 3rd,
there was talk about Cocoa, what's new,
and a description of NSURL, handle,
and the services.
Just after this session,
a session about the new web services
framework for SOAP support and XML.
Introduction to
CF Network this afternoon.
Tomorrow morning, so if you write NKs,
I encourage you to go to session 108.
808 is for CF Run on Loop and CF Stream.
Thursday morning, that's the
Advanced Mac OS X Networking session,
where we're going to go through
the new protocols and talk a little
bit more about NKs and performance.
Thursday afternoon, section 811,
Zero Configuration Networking,
including the CF Net Services API.
Feedback Forum.
So there are three.
[Transcript missing]
On Friday at 2:00 PM, the Core OS X,
it's really a general
Mac OS X networking feedback.
I mean, everything that is not covered
in other feedback forum,
you can come and give
us your feedback there.
And for the Cocoa APIs,
NSURL and NSURL Handle,
the Cocoa Feedback
Forum is the place to go.
And those are the primary
contact should be Tom Weier,
who's the evangelist for
network and communications.
But if you need to contact me,
here is my address.
So we got a lot more documentation.
A lot more documentation is available.
So most of it is on the CD or on the web.
And there's also the new
networking mailing list that
certainly you know about.